<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ptf_gh3_z2b">
    <title>Introductory</title>
    <shortdesc>This book aims to give in brief space the principal requirements of plain English
        style.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
            <p>It aims to lighten the task of instructor and student by concentrating attention (in
                Chapters <xref
                    href="elementary_rules_of_usage.dita" format="dita"
                    >II</xref> and <xref
                        href="elementary_principles_of_composition.dita" format="dita"
                    >III</xref>) on a few essentials, the rules of usage and principles of
                composition most commonly violated. In accordance with this plan it lays down three
                rules for the use of the comma, instead of a score or more, and one for the use of
                the semicolon, in the belief that these four rules provide for all the internal
                punctuation that is required by nineteen sentences out of twenty. Similarly, it
                gives in <xref href="elementary_principles_of_composition.dita" format="dita">Chapter III</xref> only those principles of the paragraph and the sentence
                which are of the widest application. The book thus covers only a small portion of
                the field of English style. The experience of its writer has been that once past the
                essentials, students profit most by individual instruction based on the problems of
                their own work, and that each instructor has his own body of theory, which he may
                prefer to that offered by any textbook.</p>
            <p>The numbers of the sections may be used as references in correcting manuscript.</p>
            <p>The writer's colleagues in the Department of English in Cornell University have
                greatly helped him in the preparation of his manuscript. Mr. George McLane Wood has
                kindly consented to the inclusion under <xref
                    href="rule_01.dita"
                    >Rule 10</xref> of some material from his <cite>Suggestions to
                Authors</cite>.</p>
            <p>The following books are recommended for reference or further study: in connection
                with Chapters <xref
                    href="elementary_rules_of_usage.dita" format="dita"
                    >II</xref> and <xref
                        href="a_few_matters_of_form.dita" format="dita"
                    >IV</xref>, F. Howard Collins, <cite>Author and Printer</cite> (Henry Frowde);
                Chicago University Press, <cite>Manual of Style</cite>; T. L. De Vinne,
                    <cite>Correct Composition</cite> (The Century Company); Horace Hart, <cite>Rules
                    for Compositors and Printers</cite> (Oxford University Press); George McLane Wood, 
                <cite>Extracts from the Style-Book of the
                    Government Printing Office</cite> (United States Geological Survey); in
                connection with Chapters <xref
                    href="elementary_principles_of_composition.dita" format="dita"
                    >III</xref> and <xref
                        href="words_and_expressions_commonly_misused.map"
                    format="dita">V</xref>, <cite>The King's English</cite> (Oxford University Press); Sir Arthur
                Quiller-Couch, <cite>The Art of Writing</cite> (Putnam), especially the chapter,
                Interlude on Jargon; George McLane Wood, <cite>Suggestions to Authors</cite> (United
                States Geological Survey); John Lesslie Hall, <cite>English Usage</cite> (Scott,
                Foresman and Co.); James P. Kelley, <cite>Workmanship in Words</cite> (Little, Brown
                and Co.). In these will be found full discussions of many points here briefly
                treated and an abundant store of illustrations to supplement those given in this
                book.</p>
            <p>It is an old observation that the best writers sometimes disregard the rules of
                rhetoric. When they do so, however, the reader will usually find in the sentence
                some compensating merit, attained at the cost of the violation. Unless he is certain
                of doing as well, he will probably do best to follow the rules. After he has
                learned, by their guidance, to write plain English adequate for everyday uses, let
                him look, for the secrets of style, to the study of the masters of literature.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
