<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="point_out_and_correct_the_faults_in_the_following_sentences">
    <title>Point out and correct the faults in the following sentences</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <refbody>
        <example>9. During childhood his mother had died.</example>
        <example>10. Any language study is good mind training while acquiring vocabulary.</example>
        <example>11. My farm consisted of about twenty acres of excellent land, having given a
            hundred pounds for my predecessor's lease.</example>
        <example>12. Prepared to encounter a woman of disordered mind, the appearance presented by
            Mrs. Taylor at his entrance greatly astonished him.</example>
        <example>13. Pale and swooning, with two broken legs, they carried him into the
            house.</example>
        <example>14. Count Cassini, the Russian plenipotentiary, had several long and intimate
            conversations during the tedious weeks of the conference with his British colleague, Sir
            Arthur Nicholson.</example>
        <example>15. But though they had been victorious in the land engagements, they were so
            little decisive as to lead to no important results.</example>
        <example>16. Knowing nothing of the rules of the college or of its customs, it was with the
            greatest difficulty that the Dean could make me comprehend wherein my wrong-doing
            lay.</example>
        <example>17. Fire, therefore, was the first object of my search. Happily, some embers were
            found upon the hearth, together with potato-stalks and dry chips. Of these, with much
            difficulty, I kindled a fire, by which some warmth was imparted to our shivering
            limbs.</example>
        <example>18. In this connection a great deal of historic fact is introduced into the novel
            about the past history of the cathedral and of Spain.</example>
        <example>19. Over the whole scene hung the haze of twilight that is so peaceful.</example>
        <example>20. Compared with Italy, living is more expensive.</example>
        <example>21. It is a fundamental principle of law to believe a man innocent until he is
            proved guilty, and once proved guilty, to remain so until proved to the
            contrary.</example>
        <example>22. Not only had the writer entrée to the titled families of Italy in whose villas
            she was hospitably entertained, but by royalty also.</example>
        <example>23. It is not a strange sight to catch a glimpse of deer along the shore.</example>
        <example>24. Earnings from other sources are of such a favorable character as to enable a
            splendid showing to be made by the company.</example>
        <example>25. But while earnings have mounted amazingly, the status of affairs is such as to
            make it impossible to predict the course events may take, with any degree of
            accuracy.</example>
    </refbody>
</reference>
