<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_x2b_4jh_cfb">
    <title>Punctuate</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <refbody>
        <example> 1. In 1788 the King's advisers warned him that the nation was facing bankruptcy
            therefore he summoned a body called the States-General believing that it would authorize
            him to levy new taxes. The people of France however were suffering from burdensome
            taxation oppressive social injustice and acute scarcity of food and their
            representatives refused to consider projects of taxation until social and economic
            reforms should be granted. The King who did not realize the gravity of the situation
            tried to overawe them collecting soldiers in and about Versailles where the sessions
            were being held. The people of Paris seeing the danger organized militia companies to
            defend their representatives. In order to supply themselves with arms they attacked the
            Invalides and the Bastille which contained the principal supplies of arms and munitions
            in Paris. </example>
        <example>2. On his first continental tour begun in 1809 Byron visited Portugal Spain Albania
            Greece and Turkey. Of this tour he composed a poetical journal Childe Harold's
            Pilgrimage in which he ascribed his experiences and reflections not to himself but to a
            fictitious character Childe Harold described as a melancholy young nobleman prematurely
            familiar with evil sated with pleasures and embittered against humanity. The substantial
            merits of the work however lay not in this shadowy and somewhat theatrical figure but in
            Byron's spirited descriptions of wild or picturesque scenes and in his eloquent
            championing of Spain and Greece against their oppressors. On his return to England in
            1811 he was persuaded rather against his own judgment into allowing the work to be
            published. Its success was almost unprecedented in his own words he awoke and found
            himself famous.</example>
    </refbody>
</reference>
