<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_fmx_kfh_cfb">
    <title>Quotations</title>
    <shortdesc>Formal quotations, cited as documentary evidence, are introduced by a colon and
        enclosed in quotation marks.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <lq>The provision of the Constitution is: <q>No tax or duty shall be laid on articles
                exported from any state.</q>
        </lq>
        <p>Quotations grammatically in apposition or the direct objects of verbs are preceded by a
            comma and enclosed in quotation marks. </p>
        <lq>I recall the maxim of La Rochefoucauld, <q>Gratitude is a lively sense of benefits to
                come.</q>
        </lq>
        <lq>Aristotle says, <q>Art is an imitation of nature.</q></lq>
        <p> Quotations of an entire line, or more, of verse, are begun on a fresh line and centered,
            but need not be enclosed in quotation marks.</p>
        <lq>Wordsworth's enthusiasm for the Revolution was at first unbounded:</lq>
        <lq>Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive, But to be young was very heaven!</lq>
        <p>Quotations introduced by that are regarded as in indirect discourse and not enclosed in
            quotation marks.</p>
        <lq>Keats declares that beauty is truth, truth beauty. </lq>
        <p>Proverbial expressions and familiar phrases of literary origin require no quotation
            marks.</p>
        <lq>These are the times that try men's souls.</lq>
        <lq>He lives far from the madding crowd.</lq>
        <p>The same is true of colloquialisms and slang.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
