<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cfx_gt4_z2b">
    <title>Rule 7</title>
    <shortdesc>A participial phrase at the beginning of a sentence must refer to the grammatical
        subject.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <lq> Walking slowly down the road, he saw a woman accompanied by two children. </lq>
        <p>The word <i>walking</i> refers to the subject of the sentence, not to the woman. If the
            writer wishes to make it refer to the woman, he must recast the sentence:</p>
        <lq> He saw a woman accompanied by two children, walking slowly down the road. </lq>
        <p>Participial phrases preceded by a conjunction or by a preposition, nouns in apposition,
            adjectives, and adjective phrases come under the same rule if they begin the
            sentence.</p>
        <table outputclass="example" id="table_e2t_wj3_z2b">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colname="col2"/>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">On
                            arriving in Chicago, his friends met him at the station.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second">When
                            he arrived (or, On his arrival) in Chicago, his friends met him at the
                            station.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">A
                            soldier of proved valor, they entrusted him with the defence of the
                            city.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second">A
                            soldier of proved valor, he was entrusted with the defence of the
                            city.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">Young
                            and inexperienced, the task seemed easy to me.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second">Young
                            and inexperienced, I thought the task easy.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">Without
                            a friend to counsel him, the temptation proved irresistible.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second"
                            >Without a friend to counsel him, he found the temptation
                            irresistible.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>Sentences violating this rule are often ludicrous.</p>
        <lq> Being in a dilapidated condition, I was able to buy the house very cheap.</lq>
        <lq> Wondering irresolutely what to do next, the clock struck twelve. </lq>
    </conbody>
</concept>
