<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cfx_gt4_z2b">
    <title>Rule 18</title>
    <shortdesc>Place the emphatic words of a sentence at the end.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The proper place in the sentence for the word, or group of words, which the writer
            desires to make most prominent is usually the end.</p>
        <table outputclass="example" id="table_gzm_bvg_cfb">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colname="col2"/>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first"
                            >Humanity has hardly advanced in fortitude since that time, though it
                            has advanced in many other ways.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second"
                            >Humanity, since that time, has advanced in many other ways, but it has
                            hardly advanced in fortitude.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">This
                            steel is principally used for making razors, because of its
                            hardness.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second"
                            >Because of its hardness, this steel is principally used in making
                            razors.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>The word or group of words entitled to this position of prominence is usually the logical
            predicate, that is, the <i>new</i> element in the sentence, as it is in the second
            example.</p>
        <p>The effectiveness of the periodic sentence arises from the prominence which it gives to
            the main statement.</p>
        <lq> Four centuries ago, Christopher Columbus, one of the Italian mariners whom the decline
            of their own republics had put at the service of the world and of adventure, seeking for
            Spain a westward passage to the Indies as a set-off against the achievements of
            Portuguese discoverers, lighted on America. </lq>
        <lq>With these hopes and in this belief I would urge you, laying aside all hindrance,
            thrusting away all private aims, to devote yourself unswervingly and unflinchingly to
            the vigorous and successful prosecution of this war.</lq>
        <p>The other prominent position in the sentence is the beginning. Any element in the
            sentence, other than the subject, may become emphatic when placed first.</p>
        <lq>Deceit or treachery he could never forgive.</lq>
        <lq>So vast and rude, fretted by the action of nearly three thousand years, the fragments of
            this architecture may often seem, at first sight, like works of nature.</lq>
        <p>A subject coming first in its sentence may be emphatic, but hardly by its position alone.
            In the sentence,</p>
        <lq>
            Great kings worshipped at his shrine,
        </lq>
        <p>the emphasis upon <i>kings</i> arises largely from its meaning and from the context. To
            receive special emphasis, the subject of a sentence must take the position of the
            predicate.</p>
        <lq>
            Through the middle of the valley flowed a winding stream.
        </lq>
        <p>The principle that the proper place for what is to be made most prominent is the end
            applies equally to the words of a sentence, to the sentences of a paragraph, and to the
            paragraphs of a composition.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
