<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cfx_gt4_z2b">
    <title>Rule 12</title>
    <shortdesc>Use definite, specific, concrete language.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Prefer the specific to the general, the definite to the vague, the concrete to the
            abstract.</p>
        <table outputclass="example" id="table_yjq_1k3_z2b">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colname="col2"/>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">A
                            period of unfavorable weather set in.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second">It
                            rained every day for a week.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">He
                            showed satisfaction as he took possession of his well-earned
                            reward.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second">He
                            grinned as he pocketed the coin.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">There
                            is a general agreement among those who have enjoyed the experience that
                            surf-riding is productive of great exhilaration.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second">All
                            who have tried surf-riding agree that it is most exhilarating.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>If those who have studied the art of writing are in accord on any one point, it is on
            this, that the surest method of arousing and holding the attention of the reader is by
            being specific, definite, and concrete. Critics have pointed out how much of the
            effectiveness of the greatest writers, Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, results from their
            constant definiteness and concreteness. Browning, to cite a more modern author, affords
            many striking examples. Take, for instance, the lines from <cite>My Last Duchess</cite>, </p>
        <lines>
        Sir, 'twas all one! My favour at her breast, The dropping of the
        daylight in the west, The bough of cherries some officious fool 
        Broke in the orchard for her, the white mule 
        She rode with round the terrace—all and each 
        Would draw from her alike the approving speech, 
        Or blush, at least, 
        </lines>
        <p> and those which end the poem, </p>
        <lines>
        Notice Neptune, though, 
        Taming a sea-horse, thought a rarity, 
        Which Claus of Innsbruck cast in bronze for me. 
        </lines>
        <p> These words call up pictures. Recall how in <cite>The Bishop Orders his Tomb in St.
                Praxed's Church</cite> “the Renaissance spirit—its worldliness, inconsistency,
            pride, hypocrisy, ignorance of itself, love of art, of luxury, of good Latin,” to quote
            Ruskin's comment on the poem, is made manifest in specific details and in concrete
            terms.</p>
        <p>Prose, in particular narrative and descriptive prose, is made vivid by the same means. If
            the experiences of Jim Hawkins and of David Balfour, of Kim, of Nostromo, have seemed
            for the moment real to countless readers, if in reading Carlyle we have almost the sense
            of being physically present at the taking of the Bastille, it is because of the
            definiteness of the details and the concreteness of the terms used. It is not that every
            detail is given; that would be impossible, as well as to no purpose; but that all the
            significant details are given, and not vaguely, but with such definiteness that the
            reader, in imagination, can project himself into the scene.</p>
        <p>In exposition and in argument, the writer must likewise never lose his hold upon the
            concrete, and even when he is dealing with general principles, he must give particular
            instances of their application.</p>
        <p>“This superiority of specific expressions is clearly due to the effort required to
            translate words into thoughts. As we do not think in generals, but in particulars—as
            whenever any class of things is referred to, we represent it to ourselves by calling to
            mind individual members of it, it follows that when an abstract word is used, the hearer
            or reader has to choose, from his stock of images, one or more by which he may figure to
            himself the genus mentioned. In doing this, some delay must arise, some force be
            expended; and if by employing a specific term an appropriate image can be at once
            suggested, an economy is achieved, and a more vivid impression produced.”</p>
        <p>Herbert Spencer, from whose <cite>Philosophy of Style</cite> the preceding paragraph is
            quoted, illustrates the principle by the sentences:</p>
        <table outputclass="example" id="table_zjq_1k3_z2b">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colname="col2"/>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col1" nameend="col1" outputclass="first">In
                            proportion as the manners, customs, and amusements of a nation are cruel
                            and barbarous, the regulations of their penal code will be
                            severe.</entry>
                        <entry morerows="0" namest="col2" nameend="col2" outputclass="second">In
                            proportion as men delight in battles, bull-fights, and combats of
                            gladiators, will they punish by hanging, burning, and the rack.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
