<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cfx_gt4_z2b">
    <title>Rule 5</title>
    <shortdesc>Do not join independent clauses by a comma.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>If two or more clauses, grammatically complete and not joined by a conjunction, are to
            form a single compound sentence, the proper mark of punctuation is a semicolon.</p>
        <lq> Stevenson's romances are entertaining; they are full of exciting adventures.</lq>
        <lq> It is nearly half past five; we cannot reach town before dark. </lq>
        <p>It is of course equally correct to write the above as two sentences each, replacing the
            semicolons by periods.</p>
        <lq> Stevenson's romances are entertaining. They are full of exciting adventures. </lq>
        <lq> It is nearly half past five. We cannot reach town before dark.</lq>
        <p>If a conjunction is inserted the proper mark is a comma (<xref keyref="rule_04"
                >Rule 4</xref>).</p>
        <lq> Stevenson's romances are entertaining, for they are full of exciting adventures.</lq>
        <lq>It is nearly half past five, and we cannot reach town before dark.</lq>
        <p>A comparison of the three forms given above will show clearly the advantage of the first.
            It is, at least in the examples given, better than the second form, because it suggests
            the close relationship between the two statements in a way that the second does not
            attempt, and better than the third, because briefer and therefore more forcible. Indeed
            it may be said that this simple method of indicating relationship between statements is
            one of the most useful devices of composition. The relationship, as above, is commonly
            one of cause or of consequence.</p>
        <p>Note that if the second clause is preceded by an adverb, such as <i>accordingly</i>,
                <i>besides</i>, <i>then</i>, <i>therefore</i>, or <i>thus</i>, and not by a
            conjunction, the semicolon is still required.</p>
        <p>Two exceptions to the rule may be admitted. If the clauses are very short, and are alike
            in form, a comma is usually permissible:</p>
        <lq> Man proposes, God disposes. </lq>
        <lq>The gate swung apart, the bridge fell, the portcullis was drawn up.</lq>
        <p>Note that in these examples the relation is not one of cause or consequence. Also in the
            colloquial form of expression,</p>
        <lq> I hardly knew him, he was so changed, </lq>
        <p>a comma, not a semicolon, is required. But this form of expression is inappropriate in
            writing, except in the dialogue of a story or play, or perhaps in a familiar letter.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
