<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE glossentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Glossary//EN" "glossary.dtd">
<glossentry id="participle_for_verbal_noun">
    <glossterm>Participle for verbal noun</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
        <table id="table_rh2_p35_zfb">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Do you mind me asking a question?</entry>
                        <entry>Do you mind my asking a question?</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>There was little prospect of the Senate accepting even this
                            compromise.</entry>
                        <entry>There was little prospect of the Senate's accepting even this
                            compromise.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>In the left-hand column, <i>asking</i> and <i>accepting</i> are present participles; in
            the right-hand column, they are verbal nouns (gerunds). The construction shown in the
            left-hand column is occasionally found, and has its defenders. Yet it is easy to see
            that the second sentence has to do not with a prospect of the Senate, but with a
            prospect of accepting. In this example, at least, the construction is plainly
            illogical.</p>
        <p>As the authors of The King's English point out, there are sentences apparently, but not
            really, of this type, in which the possessive is not called for.</p>
        <p>I cannot imagine Lincoln refusing his assent to this measure.</p>
        <p>In this sentence, what the writer cannot imagine is Lincoln himself, in the act of
            refusing his assent. Yet the meaning would be virtually the same, except for a slight
            loss of vividness, if he had written,</p>
        <p>I cannot imagine Lincoln's refusing his assent to this measure.</p>
        <p>By using the possessive, the writer will always be on the safe side.</p>
        <p>In the examples above, the subject of the action is a single, unmodified term,
            immediately preceding the verbal noun, and the construction is as good as any that could
            be used. But in any sentence in which it is a mere clumsy substitute for something
            simpler, or in which the use of the possessive is awkward or impossible, should of
            course be recast.</p>
        <table id="table_sh2_p35_zfb">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>In the event of a reconsideration of the whole matter's becoming
                            necessary</entry>
                        <entry>If it should become necessary to reconsider the whole matter</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>There was great dissatisfaction with the decision of the arbitrators
                            being favorable to the company.</entry>
                        <entry>There was great dissatisfaction that the arbitrators should have
                            decided in favor of the company.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </glossdef>
</glossentry>
